Welcome back. So,
let's go ahead and
talk a little bit
about type string it
represents a
flexible and dynamic
expansion of c like strings so c
strings that we have
learned before they
you can take that as
an example, this is a
very important type
since it is used in
almost all the programming
languages out
there so the concept
that you learn here
do not necessarily
only apply to C++ but
pretty much to all the programming
languages out there, anyway the first
thing that we will need
to do as before with all of these
just gonna type in include string and
down below
gonna go ahead and
take a look at what
string actually is,
so first of all we
need to declare and initialize the
standard things, let's go ahead and
use string s1 equals
you can see in
some example strings are usually
referred to variables STR STR something
like that but for the sake of this demo
I'm just gonna stay type in s1 equals how
is it
going? let's
keep it simple
"Hey" leave it like
that and then we can
of course print this
out onto the screen
just type in cout
you can actually see where this is going
fairly similar endl and yeah there you go
so this simply be printed out onto the
screen Hey
you can put some text
here and then that text
can be processed as a
stream pretty much
anywhere else in the
code ok so you can
also declare a string
object which is
basically you can have more than one
word as you saw here with this one you
there you saw one
word but if we go
ahead and create
a s2 for example
and say hey "how is it going" you can have
an entire sentence here in fact you can
have an entire like text or whatever you
want, you can write pretty much whatever
you want to write and you can also
do this, this would be
the constructor
initialization let's be lazy
again and utilize this,
so this is going to
be s2 but let's printed
out again, hey how
is it going? but then
again you will achieve
the same result without these you
wouldn't have any problems there
either see? hey how is it going?
so no
worries there. Let me
just bring these back
ok you are also entitled it is
completely legal in
C++ to declare an
empty string so std, string
s3 that's it, do nothing else, this
is the same as string s4 equals this
is empty
this is also an empty
string these two
concepts are exactly
the same you're
declaring an empty
string, nothing else.
Let's go ahead and
see the length of a
string you can use
the dot size that
will return the length
of a string, so
why are we using unsing?
well let me ask you something
can a size of an array or an a string be
negative?
can it be negative? I mean
you can have a certain amount of
elements are you can
I have no elements
but there is no way
that the size can be
negative so why declare int? when it
cannot be negative? just use unsingned int
s1 underline size,
give it some arbitrary
name here and we can type it s1
dot size so what
is the size of s1?
think about it, just count
the letters it oh ok so they've
just had they just had it I no longer
wish to socialize with me.
Anyway, let's
go ahead and print
out the size of s1
so s1_size printed
out onto the screen its 3 so: h:1, e:2
and y:3 so 123, they're
3 elements, again,
the indexing was the
same as before, no
nothing nothing nothing
new about that so
do you have 3 elements,
just counting 123
basically just count
the letters its
123 etc just count
them as they are
basically just counting
the letters in a
word in a sentence for
any sentences but
hey, how many
let me just reformule
this: hey t how what
is the size of the array?
what is the size
of this string now?
does the space
count or not? is the size 4?
or is it 5? let's have
a look, it's 5, the
space does count, keep
that in mind so you're
not only counting letters, you're
counting pretty much everything that is
in the string, empty spaces included. Ok
there is also a method . empty
basically just checking
if it's empty or not
you can just type in
bool emp = s1.empty
you can create output
below this one and
see if it's empty or
not can use an if
statement like if emp if
for example true, then
print true, if its false,
then print false or if
yeah that's I'm not creating
the print outs below it but
doesn't really matter
you can create
print outs on your
own I'm pretty sure
you know how to do
that by now in any
case this is basically
checking whether a
string is empty or not. Ok to access a
certain character in a string just as
before with vectors and dq and
arrays it's the
same, I mean there
literally is very
little difference just
type in char I don't know, C1 = s1
so you have this fashion
which is not the recommended
one and then we can type
in 0 and down below,
we can use the
recommended way of fixing things from
from a string or from a vector or from
a dq so it's just char C2= 1
.at let's say 0, so let's
make them completely
the same, go ahead
and copy this I just
go ahead and create
a print out here so
going to be C1 and gonna
create space here
it should be c2 h h, hey hey
what did I do?
right okay do you see what I did? I
didn't do anything wrong but it says s1
at0 and s1 index 0 here and s1 .
at 0 so
we are accessing to
same elements it's
capital h capital
h beginning the
first element of the string.
Anyway
we can also compare
strings, so you can
check wheter the two
sentences are the
same or, hey, you know
what you can do? you
can load the contents
of a text file into a
string and then you can load the
contents of another text file into
another string and
you can compare the
two strings and you
can have the program
actually print out onto the screen like
hey these are the differences between
the files or it can
just say the files
are different order
files are just say
let's go ahead and have a look
at that can just do this s1==
s2, so I don't know,
we're not gonna actually
do anything I'm just
showing you how you
can do the comparisons obviously you
could place a body
here and you can pretty much do whatever
you wanted in one case and whatever you
want in another but I just want to
show you that these operators do apply
for strings, so you can
s2 not equal to s1,
in these conditions
here can be evaluated
then later on they can be utilized as I
given you one example and you can also
do this s1== and you can give it
a string you don't need to use a
string as a variable, you can just give it a
value of
a string so hello, so
if this is equal to
hello, if the contents
of s1 are equal to
hello, you can also ask that as well. We
can also compare them alphabetically
if s1 is greater than s2, this is
comparison in an alphabetical fashion if
s1 is whatever lesser
than s2, so this
is just gonna do
comparisons based on the alphabetical
in an alphabetical way, I don't really
know what else is there to say about that
to basically add
the T at the pre
string we can use
push back some of
that as before so
you can do addition
so s1 = + = no
that's just adding
strings sorry we can just do this s3.push_back
So we're adding it to
s3 ok s3 is empty and
we can add E there you
go and down below you
can print s3 out there
you go, E has indeed
been printed out onto
the screen you see
the string is to a very large extent
different from the previous two types
which we have processed here
you can also add strings
you can concatenate them
so you can type in s1
+ = tralalala ok,f this is the same as me writing
s1+ tralalala
instead of that I'm
using the short
version so I'm just
typing it in like
this you can also do this in a more
complex passion for example
you can do it like this
std, colon colon,
string s4= s1 + , + S2
and you see, whatever
is in s1 and we
have hey which is in
s1, you will add a
coma to it at the
end, so it will be
hey, + s2 which is hey
how's it going?
that's it, can you
print out onto the
screen just run it,
here seem to have a
bit of an error here
what is the problem? declaration of s4
ok gimme s5
why haven't you produce right right, s5. Ok
Heytralalala, Hey how is it going.
We've already
add a tralalala directed
the previous one, in the
previous lines in a
previous line of code,
so the previous one
but actually yes the
previous added there, there you can see how this works, just go out and
do it one more time.
analyzed this and compare it to what we
have done in these three lines of code
and see how that has reflected the
strength itself the string s5, how it is
reflected in it. Now, there is another
concept which is very important you can
I mean this is for
user input, so if
you're wondering how
a user can input a
whole sentence
well to imput a single string
from a keyword and by
this I mean only one
word without spaces
you can do this:
string s6 and we
will leave it uninitialized there and
then blow it will be a std, colon colon,
cin and naturally you would
think that it's s5, s6 sorry
well yes, it can go like this,
but can only imput one word here let me
show you what I mean by it
testtesttest but if I press space and
type in test again,
my bad,  my bad I mean I did
everything right but I didn't create a
print out, so you
can actually see
what's going on s6,
run the code again
so test bla tra and you
can see it has only
taken test into
consideration, everything
passed everything immediately as soon as
I press space, it was no longer in
putting this, so it was no longer
concerned with this so to say, it didn't
take that into consideration, if you want
to be able to imput an entire line, well
then you would use this std, colon colon,
get line and it will be std
colon colon, cin, s6 in this
fashion you could actually, you have method
get line, then you
have argument that are
passed to it, in this
fashion you would
be able to imput an entire sentence,
pretty much, there
aren't any significant limits to this, so
it's like dance
run party jump hahaha and
you can see all of these
words are taken into
consideration, they're
placed into a string and
printed out onto the
screen so before I
wrap this tutorial up,
once again I repeat
that string is
probably the most
important type here
if not the most important type please
make sure that you understand it for
the full of its extends even with other
programming languages you're still going
to need it, you still going to, you know
likelihood you will use it and it is a
very important concept to grasp.
Anyway
bet you feel well
and hope to see you
in the follow
tutorial.